("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Because it's not your forest.
The forest belongs to
everyone, including me!
- [Narrator] Ronja
resented Birk's intrusion
into her time in the forest,
but she agreed to
help him find his way
through the deepening fog.
But this was no ordinary fog,
and Ronja was
tempted by the spell
of the Unearthly Ones.
Birk saved her from them,
but she remembered nothing
of what had happened.
(light music)
- I wonder when Mattis
will throw Borka out.
He's determined
to get rid of him
and his dirty devil son.
And yet I wonder what
he's doing right now.
(sighing)
(horse neighing)
- Going out again?
Having another look?
All you do is look for
the elusive Borka Robbers.
Try using your
head a little, eh?
(chuckling)
- Use my head, was that?
If you want to keep
yours, do some work.
- Sure, cleaning the
floors is much more useful
than whatever you're
doing (laughing).
- Let's go!
(sighing)
- It's as quiet as a graveyard.
- Makes me nervous.
Can't see anyone.
- Neither can I, but they have
to be using this rock face
to get in and out of there.
- But Chief, you're not saying
we should climb up that!
- I have a better way.
(suspenseful music)
And down.
(grunting)
(arrow vibrating)
(rocks crashing)
(grunting)
(rocks cracking)
(screaming)
(rocks crashing)
- Now, come on.
Just like I showed you.
(grunting)
- Are you sure?
- Don't worry.
They won't see us down here.
(whimpering)
- This is such a bad idea.
(wood snapping)
(screaming)
- Don't just stand there.
Bring him up!
(screaming)
- It hit the ceiling.
- You idiots, pull him back.
- We can't!
It just won't budge.
(screaming)
- Help! Help!
(wood rattling)
(grumbling)
- You need to be as
cunning as a fox.
Time to approach things
in a different way.
We need to outsmart
that scoundrel.
You can't always use force!
(groaning)
- Looks like we won't be
back robbing anytime soon.
- And Borka's men too.
That lot haven't left the
Keep since they got here.
- And so now Robbers Walk is
the safest path in the forest.
(growling)
(chord strums)
(light music)
- This is the life.
Haven't seen robbers
around for days.
- Well, perhaps they all left.
We all must move on.
Or perhaps my music sent
them into a slumber,
or maybe the ever so
divine wonderful music
you play has scared them away.
(laughing)
- Leave all your
belongings and run.
- Oh, dear me, no!
(laughing)
- Stop messing around back
there and play something.
(light music)
(rain drizzling)
- It's deserted.
No sign of Borka
Robbers around here.
(cheering)
- Finally, we can leave
this horrible forest.
- Can we really?
What about that other tribe
holding fast over there?
- There's no place
worse than that castle.
That sly robber chief
is impossible to catch.
Even harder than catching
an eagle on a cliff top.
Come on, men, we're
pulling out for the year.
Let's go home.
(exciting music)
- So it's true.
This rock face is the only
way to get inside the place.
And now you've shown
yourselves, you dirty devils!
(playful music)
(groaning)
Why you!
(yelping)
- (panting) It's okay.
No problem, I'm fine.
I'm brave (screaming).
- Bring me the bog moss.
- (whimpering) Help me!
- Stop that noise
and whimpering.
Hush up, stay in
bed for a few days,
and you'll be fine.
- Sure.
- Hey, Lill-Klippen.
- Yes, Ronja?
- When you saw
the Borka Robbers,
was there a boy with them?
- A boy? You mean Borka's son?
Ummm (laughs).
I was too busy avoiding arrows.
Well, all of them but one.
They tried to kill
me but they missed.
Next time I'll kill them.
They'll regret
meeting me (yelping).
My leg, my leg (groaning).
- Now after all that
hunting, you found a ladder.
You must be very proud
of yourself, Mattis.
(yelling)
(water rushing)
- How soft the moss is.
What a beautiful sound.
Ah, smells nice.
(light music)
(leaves rustle)
(giggling)
Wild horses.
(sighs)
Hello.
(light music)
(rain drizzling)
(metal scraping)
- Me, I'm bored.
- When there's nothing to
do, you can get out of shape.
- What's for dinner, I wonder?
It might be mutton soup.
My favorite.
- Please, that's
not nearly the best.
It's chicken soup.
- Chicken soup?
Too greasy, it disgusts me.
- Of course, that's why
you always stink of mutton.
- What!
- You heard!
- You want to fight?
- Calm yourself,
bunch of babies.
- What did you say?
- If I'm a baby,
you're a grandpa.
- Grandpa? Say that again.
- Calm down, all of you.
You're all stupid.
- Stupid?
- Well, I think that
you're the stupid one!
- Do you? Alright (growling).
- Acting like babies,
you should all shut up.
- What's that?
Baby, am I?
- Very funny.
Borka made you weep like a baby.
- How dare you!
You do nothing but guard, Tjorm!
- It's an important job!
(snickering)
Stop laughing or I'll
cover you all in manure.
- Manure suits me fine.
After all, I do
most of the farming.
- Why are you arguing when
you know all food is good?
- [All] Shut up, Knotas.
Who asked you?
(instrument strums)
(yelping)
- That's enough!
Finally, a bit of
peace and quiet.
I think you've gone
and burst my ear drum.
Now act like the men
you're pretending to be
and not the silly
babies you all are.
(sighing)
Hm.
(rooster crowing)
(chickens clucking)
- I can't bear the
stench in here.
- Well, it's your fault
for mocking chicken soup.
- Haven't we cleaned
enough by now?
This I do swear.
No more fighting,
no more complaining.
I won't even complain that
I can't fight anymore.
(sheep bleating)
- He doesn't believe you.
Come on.
(grunting)
- Alright, who
wants to go hunting?
(gasping)
(cheering)
(calm music)
(sighing)
- And that's it.
The salting's done.
That'll keep our
meat all winter.
And the rest of it we'll
just smoke and put aside.
- Good evening, Lovis.
I was just wondering if I
could make a small request.
- Hm?
- As you're cooking
a delicious elk,
remember all the tenderest
bits are for toothless old men.
Old men like me (giggling).
(chuckling)
(upbeat music)
(blabbering)
(laughing)
- Mattis, one day I'll catch
and tame a wild
horse all by myself,
just like you did at my age.
- Yes, but you'll have to be
really fast and strong enough.
- I am!
I am strong enough,
you'll see I can.
- [Mattis] (laughing)
Ronja, I'll bet you can do
anything you want.
- No animals in the forest.
So where have they gone?
It's eerie and quiet.
Even that boy, where
is the dirty devil?
- Gray dwarves.
Human here, human here.
(hissing)
(giggling)
- Gray dwarves, run away!
(light music)
(grunts)
- [Narrator]
Throughout the autumn,
not once did Ronja see Birk.
Of course she was
pleased about that.
(harp strumming)
Or?
- I don't know.
I should be happy.
- [Narrator] Sometimes she
simply didn't know how she felt.
(harp strums)
(upbeat music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Stuck in the Snow".
Don't miss it!
(light music)